Combo Box

The Combo Box is a versatile tool that allows you to select text from a list of options and add new items as needed.  

List items can be loaded and saved from ordinary text files, (each line should have a return at the end).  Items can be added or removed via actions or by the user via the visible edit line at the top of the control.

ADD A LINE
Click on the "Add a line" button to add a new line to the list.  Click on the Combo Box to see the results.

LOAD A LIST FILE
Click on the "Load a list file" button to load a list file from the disk using a file selector.

One of the combo's great features is that this object will display a list of all the files within a specific directory, automatically, when told to do so.

By using a  wildcard to restrict this action, you can display a list of all of one file type in a certain directory.

For example, you might want to display all the .txt files in a directory. You could use an Edit object to specify the directory, and then the Combo Box will automatically load in a list of all the .txt files within that directory. 


SAVE A LIST FILE
This action saves the current contents of the Combo Box to a text file, called "Mycombo.txt". If you use a file manager program, then you will be able to see it next to this application. If you open it with a text editor you can see the contents of the Combo Box within.

Note: if you try to use this action on a write protected directory, such as on the CD, then an error will be returned, because no data can be written.

The contents of the Combo Box can be saved as a Text file (.txt) and loaded into the object at application run-time.  The common file extension is .lst, but you can use .txt, or others, as long as your actions use the same extension with the filname.

Individual lines can be retrieved from the combo box into objects like an Edit object, and then re-written to the Combo Box. In this way the contents of the object can be edited, added to and displayed in a variety of ways.  

To restrict the files to view only one type, you would add the text "\*.txt" to the end of the expression, for example.

NOTE: See the comments in the source file for more information about this object.