1855
                                LEAVES OF GRASS
                                by Walt Whitman

  COME, said my Soul,
  Such verses for my Body let us write, (for we are one,)
  That should I after death invisibly return,
  Or, long, long hence, in other spheres,
  There to some group of mates the chants resuming,
  (Tallying Earth's soil, trees, winds, tumultous waves,)
  Ever with pleas'd smile I may keep on,
  Ever and ever yet the verses owning -as, first, I here and now,
  Signing for Soul and Body, set to them my name,

                                        Walt Whitman
     One's-Self I Sing

  ONE'S-SELF I sing, a simple separate person,
  Yet utter the word Democratic, the word En-Masse.

  Of physiology from top to toe I sing,
  Not physiognomy alone nor brain alone is worthy for the Muse, I say
     the Form complete is worthier far,
  The Female equally with the Male I sing.

  Of Life immense in passion, pulse, and power,
  Cheerful, for freest action form'd under the laws divine,
  The Modern Man I sing.
     As I Ponder'd in Silence

  AS I ponder'd in silence,
  Returning upon my poems, considering, lingering long,
  A Phantom arose before me with distrustful aspect,
  Terrible in beauty, age, and power,
  The genius of poets of old lands,
  As to me directing like flame its eyes,
  With finger pointing to many immortal songs,
  And menacing voice, What singest thou? it said,
  Know'st thou not there is hut one theme for ever-enduring bards?
  And that is the theme of War, the fortune of battles,
  The making of perfect soldiers.

  Be it so, then I answer'd,
  I too haughty Shade also sing war, and a longer and greater
     one than any,
  Waged in my book with varying fortune, with flight, advance
     and retreat, victory deferr'd and wavering,
  (Yet methinks certain, or as good as certain, at the last,) the
     field the world,
  For life and death, for the Body  and for the eternal Soul,
  Lo, I too am come, chanting the chant of battles,
  I above all promote brave soldiers.
     In Cabin'd Ships at Sea

  IN cabin'd ships at sea,
  The boundless blue on every side expanding,
  With whistling winds and music of the waves, the large imperious
     waves,
  Or some lone bark buoy'd on the dense marine,
  Where joyous full of faith, spreading white sails,
  She cleaves the ether mid the sparkle and the foam of day, or under
     many a star at night,
  By sailors young and old haply will I, a reminiscence of the land,
     be read,
  In full rapport at last.

  Here are our thoughts, voyagers' thoughts,
  Here not the land, firm land, alone appears, may then by them be
     said,
  The sky o'erarches here, we feel the undulating deck beneath our
     feet,
  We feel the long pulsation, ebb and flow of endless motion,
  The tones of unseen mystery, the vague and vast suggestions of the
     briny world, the liquid-flowing syllables,
  The perfume, the faint creaking of the cordage, the melancholy
     rhythm,
  The boundless vista and the horizon far and dim are all here,
  And this is ocean's poem.

  Then falter not O book, fulfil your destiny,
  You not a reminiscence of the land alone,
  You too as a lone bark cleaving the ether, purpos'd I know not
     whither, yet ever full of faith,
  Consort to every ship that sails, sail you!
  Bear forth to them folded my love, (dear mariners, for you I fold it
     here in every leaf;)
  Speed on my book! spread your white sails my little bark athwart the
     imperious waves,
  Chant on, sail on, bear o'er the boundless blue from me to every sea,
  This song for mariners and all their ships.
    To Foreign Lands

  I HEARD that you ask'd for something to prove this puzzle the New
     World,
  And to define America, her athletic Democracy,
  Therefore I send you my poems that you behold in them what you
     wanted.
     To a Historian

  YOU who celebrate bygones,
  Who have explored the outward, the surfaces of the races, the life
     that has exhibited itself,
  Who have treated of man as the creature of politics, aggregates,
     rulers and priests,
  I, habitan of the Alleghanies, treating of him as he is in himself
     in his own rights,
  Pressing the pulse of the life that has seldom exhibited itself,
     (the great pride of man in himself,)
  Chanter of Personality, outlining what is yet to be,
  I project the history of the future.
     To Thee Old Cause

  To thee old cause!
  Thou peerless, passionate, good cause,
  Thou stern, remorseless, sweet idea,
  Deathless throughout the ages, races, lands,
  After a strange sad war, great war for thee,
  (I think all war through time was really fought, and ever will be
     really fought, for thee,)
  These chants for thee, the eternal march of thee.

  (A war O soldiers not for itself alone,
  Far, far more stood silently waiting behind, now to advance in this
     book.)

  Thou orb of many orbs!
  Thou seething principle! thou well-kept, latent germ! thou
     centre!
  Around the idea of thee the war revolving,
  With all its angry and vehement play of causes,
  (With vast results to come for thrice a thousand years,)
  These recitatives for thee, -my book and the war are one,
  Merged in its spirit I and mine, as the contest hinged on thee,
  As a wheel on its axis turns, this book unwitting to itself,
  Around the idea of thee.
EIDOLONS
     Eidolons

     I MET a seer,
  Passing the hues and objects of the world,
  The fields of art and learning, pleasure, sense,
     To glean eidolons.

     Put in thy chants said he,
  No more the puzzling hour nor day, nor segments, parts, put in,
  Put first before the rest as light for all and entrance-song of all,
     That of eidolons.

     Ever the dim beginning,
  Ever the growth, the rounding of the circle,
  Ever the summit and the merge at last, (to surely start again,)
     Eidolons! eidolons!

     Ever the mutable,
  Ever materials, changing, crumbling, re-cohering,
  Ever the ateliers, the factories divine,
     Issuing eidolons.

     Lo, I or you,
  Or woman, man, or state, known or unknown,
  We seeming solid wealth, strength, beauty build,
     But really build eidolons.

     The ostent evanescent,
  The substance of an artist's mood or savan's studies long,
  Or warrior's, martyr's, hero's toils,
     To fashion his eidolon.

     Of every human life,
  (The units gather'd, posted, not a thought, emotion, deed, left
        out,)
  The whole or large or small summ'd, added up,
     In its eidolon.

     The old, old urge,
  Based on the ancient pinnacles, lo, newer, higher pinnacles,
  From science and the modern still impell'd,
     The old, old urge, eidolons.

     The present now and here,
  America's busy, teeming, intricate whirl,
  Of aggregate and segregate for only thence releasing,
     To-day's eidolons.

     These with the past,
  Of vanish'd lands, of all the reigns of kings across the sea,
  Old conquerors, old campaigns, old sailors' voyages,
     Joining eidolons.

     Densities, growth, facades,
  Strata of mountains, soils, rocks, giant trees,
  Far-born, far-dying, living long, to leave,
     Eidolons everlasting.

     Exalte, rapt, ecstatic,
  The visible but their womb of birth,
  Of orbic tendencies to shape and shape and shape,
     The mighty earth-eidolon.

     All space, all time,
  (The stars, the terrible perturbations of the suns,
  Swelling, collapsing, ending, serving their longer,
        shorter use,)
     Fill'd with eidolons only.

     The noiseless myriads,
  The infinite oceans where the rivers empty,
  The separate countless free identities, like eyesight,
     The true realities, eidolons.

     Not this the world,
  Nor these the universes, they the universes,
  Purport and end, ever the permanent life of life,
     Eidolons, eidolons.

     Beyond thy lectures learn'd professor,
  Beyond thy telescope or spectroscope observer keen, beyond all
        mathematics,
  Beyond the doctor's surgery, anatomy, beyond the chemist with his
        chemistry,
     The entities of entities, eidolons.

     Unfix'd yet fix'd,
  Ever shall be, ever have been and are,
  Sweeping the present to the infinite future,
     Eidolons, eidolons, eidolons.

     The prophet and the bard,
  Shall yet maintain themselves, in higher stages yet,
  Shall mediate to the Modern, to Democracy, interpret yet to them,
     God and eidolons.

     And thee my soul,
  Joys, ceaseless exercises, exaltations,
  Thy yearning amply fed at last, prepared to meet,
     Thy mates, eidolons.

     Thy body permanent,
  The body lurking there within thy body,
  The only purport of the form thou art, the real I myself,
     An image, an eidolon.

     Thy very songs not in thy songs,
  No special strains to sing, none for itself,
  But from the whole resulting, rising at last and floating,
     A round full-orb'd eidolon.
     For Him I Sing

  FOR him I sing,
  I raise the present on the past,
  (As some perennial tree out of its roots, the present on the past,)
  With time and space I him dilate and fuse the immortal laws,
  To make himself by them the law unto himself.
     When I Read the Book

  WHEN I read the book, the biography famous,
  And is this then (said I) what the author calls a man's life?
  And so will some one when I am dead and gone write my life?
  (As if any man really knew aught of my life,
  Why even I myself I often think know little or nothing of my real
     life,
  Only a few hints, a few diffused faint clews and indirections
  I seek for my own use to trace out here.)
     Beginning My Studies

  BEGINNING my studies the first step pleas'd me so much,
  The mere fact consciousness, these forms, the power of motion,
  The least insect or animal, the senses, eyesight, love,
  The first step I say awed me and pleas'd me so much,
  I have hardly gone and hardly wish'd to go any farther,
  But stop and loiter all the time to sing it in ecstatic songs.
BEGINNERS
     Beginners

  HOW they are provided for upon the earth, (appearing at intervals,)
  How dear and dreadful they are to the earth,
  How they inure to themselves as much as to any -what a paradox
     appears their age,
  How people respond to them, yet know them not,
  How there is something relentless in their fate all times,
  How all times mischoose the objects of their adulation and reward,
  And how the same inexorable price must still be paid for the same
     great purchase.
     To the States

  To the States or any one of them, or any city of the States, Resist
     much, obey little,
  Once unquestioning obedience, once fully enslaved,
  Once fully enslaved, no nation, state, city of this earth, ever
      afterward resumes its liberty.
     On Journeys Through the States

  ON journeys through the States we start,
  (Ay through the world, urged by these songs,
  Sailing henceforth to every land, to every sea,)
  We willing learners of all, teachers of all, and lovers of all.

  We have watch'd the seasons dispensing themselves and passing on,
  And have said, Why should not a man or woman do as much as the
     seasons, and effuse as much?

  We dwell a while in every city and town,
  We pass through Kanada, the North-east, the vast valley of the
     Mississippi, and the Southern States,
  We confer on equal terms with each of the States,
  We make trial of ourselves and invite men and women to hear,
  We say to ourselves, Remember, fear not, be candid, promulge the
     body and the soul,
  Dwell a while and pass on, be copious, temperate, chaste, magnetic,
  And what you effuse may then return as the seasons return,
  And may be just as much as the seasons.
     To a Certain Cantatrice

  HERE, take this gift,
  I was reserving it for some hero, speaker, or general,
  One who should serve the good old cause, the great idea, the
     progress and freedom of the race,
  Some brave confronter of despots, some daring rebel;
  But I see that what I was reserving belongs to you just as much as
     to any.
     Me Imperturbe

  ME imperturbe, standing at ease in Nature,
  Master of all or mistress of all, aplomb in the midst of irrational
     things,
  Imbued as they, passive, receptive, silent as they,
  Finding my occupation, poverty, notoriety, foibles, crimes, less
     important than I thought,
  Me toward the Mexican sea, or in the Mannahatta or the Tennessee,
     or far north or inland,
  A river man, or a man of the woods or of any farm-life of these
     States or of the coast, or the lakes or Kanada,
  Me wherever my life is lived, O to be self-balanced for
     contingencies,
  To confront night, storms, hunger, ridicule, accidents, rebuffs, as
     the trees and animals do.
SAVANTISM
     Savantism

  THITHER as I look I see each result and glory retracing itself and
     nestling close, always obligated,
  Thither hours, months, years -thither trades, compacts,
     establishments, even the most minute,
  Thither every-day life, speech, utensils, politics, persons,
     estates;
  Thither we also, I with my leaves and songs, trustful, admirant,
  As a father to his father going takes his children along with him.
     The Ship Starting

  LO, the unbounded sea,
  On its breast a ship starting, spreading all sails, carrying even
     her moonsails.
  The pennant is flying aloft as she speeds she speeds so stately-
     below emulous waves press forward,
  They surround the ship with shining curving motions and foam.
     I Hear America Singing

  I HEAR America singing, the varied carols I hear,
  Those of mechanics, each one singing his as it should be blithe and
     strong,
  The carpenter singing his as he measures his plank or beam,
  The mason singing his as he makes ready for work, or leaves off work,
  The boatman singing what belongs to him in his boat, the deckhand
     singing on the steamboat deck,
  The shoemaker singing as he sits on his bench, the hatter singing as
     he stands,
  The wood-cutter's song, the ploughboy's on his way in the morning,
     or at noon intermission or at sundown,
  The delicious singing of the mother, or of the young wife at work,
     or of the girl sewing or washing,
  Each singing what belongs to him or her and to none else,
  The day what belongs to the day- at night the party of young
     fellows, robust, friendly,
  Singing with open mouths their strong melodious songs.
     What Place Is Besieged?

  WHAT place is besieged, and vainly tries to raise the siege?
  Lo, I send to that place a commander, swift, brave, immortal,
  And with him horse and foot, and parks of artillery,
  And artillery-men, the deadliest that ever fired gun.
     Still Though the One I Sing

  STILL though the one I sing,
  (One, yet of contradictions made,) I dedicate to Nationality,
  I leave in him revolt, (O latent right of insurrection! O
     quenchless, indispensable fire!)
     Shut Not Your Doors

  SHUT not your doors to me proud libraries,
  For that which was lacking on all your well-fill'd shelves, yet
     needed most, I bring,
  Forth from the war emerging, a book I have made,
  The words of my book nothing, the drift of it every thing,
  A book separate, not link'd with the rest nor felt by the intellect,
  But you ye untold latencies will thrill to every page.
     Poets to Come

  POETS to come! orators, singers, musicians to come!
  Not to-day is to justify me and answer what I am for,
  But you, a new brood, native, athletic, continental, greater than
     before known,
  Arouse! for you must justify me.

  I myself but write one or two indicative words for the future,
  I but advance a moment only to wheel and hurry back in the darkness.

  I am a man who, sauntering along without fully stopping, turns a
     casual look upon you and then averts his face,
  Leaving it to you to prove and define it,
  Expecting the main things from you.
     To You

  STRANGER, if you passing meet me and desire to speak to me, why
     should you not speak to me?
  And why should I not speak to you?
     Thou Reader

  THOU reader throbbest life and pride and love the same as I,
  Therefore for thee the following chants.
     Starting from Paumanok